When you see the nature of the Rupa, Rupa and also same time, the errors and mistakes of the dual
ities.
You see, at that moment, if you are relaxing in the natural state without any publication or
without any constructive things,
and that is known as meditation. Meditation, when you are not distracted residing in that status,
that is known as meditation or keeping up the meditation, there is no meditation.
The "Great Meditation" in Dzogchen teaching often uses it. "Great Meditation" is no meditation.
What that means is Dzogchen meditation has no effort. You are not making any effort and making
around this, about that.
Everything is in the natural status. There is nothing in really anything and it is not natural.
When you have that understanding and relax under this natural status and that present status,
that present status and that openness and clear status, that is natural.
What we need now for the particular big in the practice, in the evening and the advanced practice
in the teaching
is to bring the strength of the mindfulness, awareness, not let it be distracted.
Not let it be distracted. By what? By the object of six senses. Don't let it be diluted and
distracted by the object of six senses.
All the six senses and just let it go. In order to do this, again not let it be distracted by the
six senses,
what in the teaching said? As I said the other day, now go young.
That means relax in the natural status without any publications and let it come, let it go and no
judgmentals.
And for that what in the teaching said? I use the example, I mean not just me. This is a very known
teaching.
And as baby watch, baby see the neuropandons, neuropandons of the world, what that baby makes
judgmental.
All many times also said grown up purpose, grown up purpose watch the sand castles of the children
's play.
When the children's play in the sand castles in the beach, grandparents when they watch that, watch
all parents watch that.
What they are going to do that with? They see these sand castles, they are doing these things but
they are not going to make big judgment or judgment that.
Even maybe children's make a big judgment in big things but they just say it's sand castles.
And the children say that's the training department. The other father says yes, yes, that is the
training department.
And they say this is my garage. Yes, this is your garage.
You are the children's. All grandparents say that.
Or this is my bedroom. They say yes, your bedroom. How beautiful this is.
Even though that baby, even though grandparents say this, what they have, they don't have big
cleaning yard.
That's the how. It's called see where things are. See as it is.
And without judgmentalness. We were able to do that.
That is known as then not described by external object or the six senses of the object and the
subject.